README.md, before:


# TonUtils

<img src="https://github.com/baadev/TonUtils/blob/main/assets/TonUtils.png?raw=true" width=500 />

![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/baadev/TonUtils?style=plastic)
![Licence](https://img.shields.io/github/license/baadev/TonUtils)
![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/baadev/TonUtils)

## About

TonUtils is a toolkit designed to enhance the development and manipulation with the TON (The Open Network) blockchain. 

It provides with a suite of tools and utilities to streamline workflows, optimize development, and facilitate easier interaction with the TON blockchain.

## Features

- **Public Address Utils**
- **Wallet Creation**
- **Transaction Crafting**

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have installed:
- Node.js (v16.x or later)
- npm (v8.x or later)

### Installation

To get started with `TonUtils`, clone the repository and install its dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/baadev/TonUtils.git
cd TonUtils
npm install
```

## Features Description

### Public Address Utils

#### Module `public.address.utils`

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Function</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Example Output:</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getPublicAddressByWallet</td>
        <td>Returns the public address associated with a given wallet.</td>
        <td>
            <pre>EQCgBnDa0omfX3xW-UoxUZNn0fdCm7YWnaj1dVjZz_EDpxZL</pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getPublicAddressByMnenomic</td>
        <td>Retrieves the public address associated with a given mnemonic.</td>
        <td>
            <pre>EQCgBnDa0omfX3xW-UoxUZNn0fdCm7YWnaj1dVjZz_EDpxZL</pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getBouncableAddress</td>
        <td>Returns the bounceable address for the given address.</td>
        <td>
            <pre>EQCgBnDa0omfX3xW-UoxUZNn0fdCm7YWnaj1dVjZz_EDpxZL</pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getNonBouncableAddress</td>
        <td>Returns the non-bounceable address for the given address.</td>
        <td>
            <pre>UQCgBnDa0omfX3xW-UoxUZNn0fdCm7YWnaj1dVjZz_EDp0uO</pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

##### Usage

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Function</th>
        <th>Example</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getPublicAddressByWallet</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>getPublicAddressByWallet(WalletContractV4)</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getPublicAddressByMnenomic</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>await getPublicAddressByMnenomic("one two three...");</code></pre>
            <p>or</p>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>await getPublicAddressByMnenomic(["one", "two", "three"]);</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getBouncableAddress</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>getBouncableAddress("UQ...");</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getNonBouncableAddress</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>getBouncableAddress("EQ...");</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

#### Module `wallet`

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Function</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Output</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>createWallet</td>
        <td>Returns a new wallet.</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>{ mnemonic, keyPair, generatedWallet }</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

##### Usage

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Function</th>
        <th>Example</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>createWallet</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>const { mnemonic, keyPair, generatedWallet } = await createWallet();</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>


#### Example get public address by mnemonic as cmd tool

```console
npx ts-node ./modules/public.address.utils.ts -m 'abandon ability able about above absent absorb abstract absurd abuse access accident account accuse achieve acid acoustic acquire across act action actor actress actual adapt'

# Output:
Bounceable:  EQBDyloUvY25siQu-6XzJ4M7bBWUwUxGQ7BRC7oOB0R1JQ3Y
Not Bounceable:  UQBDyloUvY25siQu-6XzJ4M7bBWUwUxGQ7BRC7oOB0R1JVAd
```

-----------
### Wallet Management

Wallet Management utility will allow you to generate specified amount of new wallets and send specified amount of TON in order to activate it in blockchain.


#### Example of creating 3 activated wallets with balance of 0.01 using cmd
Put your funding wallet mnemonic like showed below in your .env file   
`FUNDING_SEED=one two three...` 

After that run:
```console
npx ts-node ./wallet_gen/multi_wallet_gen.ts --wallets 3 --popup 0.01
```
#### Available arguments:
| Argument    | Description                                 | Example       | 
| ----------- | ---------------------------                 | -----------   | 
| --wallets   | The number of wallets to be created         | --wallets 3   |
| --popup     | The amount of TON to be sent to each wallet | --popup 0.01  | 


For more information, please refer to the [README](./wallet_gen/README.md) file in the `wallet_gen` directory.

-----------
### Transaction Crafting

The `wallet_popup` directory contains a TypeScript script used for sending TON cryptocurrency from a funding wallet to a list of other wallets. For more details, please refer to the [README](./wallet_popup/README.md) file in the `wallet_popup` directory.

## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions from the community! If you're interested in helping improve TonUtils, here are ways you can contribute:

- **Reporting Bugs**: Open an issue to report a bug.
- **Suggesting Enhancements**: Have ideas on how to make TonUtils better? Open an issue with your suggestions.
- **Pull Requests**: Submit pull requests with bug fixes or new features.

## License

TonUtils is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE). Feel free to fork and modify it as per your needs.

## Support

If you need assistance or have any questions, feel free to open an issue or contact us directly.

Commit message:

removed unused dependencies and files, updated core concept in readme

README.md, after:


# TonUtils

<img src="https://github.com/baadev/TonUtils/blob/main/assets/TonUtils.png?raw=true" width=500 />

![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/baadev/TonUtils?style=plastic)
![Licence](https://img.shields.io/github/license/baadev/TonUtils)
![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/baadev/TonUtils)

## About

TonUtils is a set of tools designed to enhance the development and operation with the TON (The Open Network) blockchain.

A distinguishing idea of TonUtils is to maintain a minimal number of dependencies and external libraries, while also providing a flexible set of tools to increase the sustainability of your projects.

Additionally, it aims to simplify workflows, optimize development, and facilitate interaction with the TON blockchain.

## Features

- **Public Address Utils**
- **Wallet Creation**
- **Transaction Crafting**

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have installed:
- Node.js (v16.x or later)
- npm (v8.x or later)

### Installation

To get started with `TonUtils`, clone the repository and install its dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/baadev/TonUtils.git
cd TonUtils
npm install
```

## Features Description

### Public Address Utils

#### Module `public.address.utils`

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Function</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Example Output:</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getPublicAddressByWallet</td>
        <td>Returns the public address associated with a given wallet.</td>
        <td>
            <pre>EQCgBnDa0omfX3xW-UoxUZNn0fdCm7YWnaj1dVjZz_EDpxZL</pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getPublicAddressByMnenomic</td>
        <td>Retrieves the public address associated with a given mnemonic.</td>
        <td>
            <pre>EQCgBnDa0omfX3xW-UoxUZNn0fdCm7YWnaj1dVjZz_EDpxZL</pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getBouncableAddress</td>
        <td>Returns the bounceable address for the given address.</td>
        <td>
            <pre>EQCgBnDa0omfX3xW-UoxUZNn0fdCm7YWnaj1dVjZz_EDpxZL</pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getNonBouncableAddress</td>
        <td>Returns the non-bounceable address for the given address.</td>
        <td>
            <pre>UQCgBnDa0omfX3xW-UoxUZNn0fdCm7YWnaj1dVjZz_EDp0uO</pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

##### Usage

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Function</th>
        <th>Example</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getPublicAddressByWallet</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>getPublicAddressByWallet(WalletContractV4)</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getPublicAddressByMnenomic</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>await getPublicAddressByMnenomic("one two three...");</code></pre>
            <p>or</p>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>await getPublicAddressByMnenomic(["one", "two", "three"]);</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getBouncableAddress</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>getBouncableAddress("UQ...");</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>getNonBouncableAddress</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>getBouncableAddress("EQ...");</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

#### Module `wallet`

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Function</th>
        <th>Description</th>
        <th>Output</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>createWallet</td>
        <td>Returns a new wallet.</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>{ mnemonic, keyPair, generatedWallet }</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>

##### Usage

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Function</th>
        <th>Example</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>createWallet</td>
        <td>
            <pre lang="typescript"><code>const { mnemonic, keyPair, generatedWallet } = await createWallet();</code></pre>
        </td>
    </tr>
</table>


#### Example get public address by mnemonic as cmd tool

```console
npx ts-node ./modules/public.address.utils.ts -m 'abandon ability able about above absent absorb abstract absurd abuse access accident account accuse achieve acid acoustic acquire across act action actor actress actual adapt'

# Output:
Bounceable:  EQBDyloUvY25siQu-6XzJ4M7bBWUwUxGQ7BRC7oOB0R1JQ3Y
Not Bounceable:  UQBDyloUvY25siQu-6XzJ4M7bBWUwUxGQ7BRC7oOB0R1JVAd
```

-----------
### Wallet Management

Wallet Management utility will allow you to generate specified amount of new wallets and send specified amount of TON in order to activate it in blockchain.


#### Example of creating 3 activated wallets with balance of 0.01 using cmd
Put your funding wallet mnemonic like showed below in your .env file   
`FUNDING_SEED=one two three...` 

After that run:
```console
npx ts-node ./wallet_gen/multi_wallet_gen.ts --wallets 3 --popup 0.01
```
#### Available arguments:
| Argument    | Description                                 | Example       | 
| ----------- | ---------------------------                 | -----------   | 
| --wallets   | The number of wallets to be created         | --wallets 3   |
| --popup     | The amount of TON to be sent to each wallet | --popup 0.01  | 


For more information, please refer to the [README](./wallet_gen/README.md) file in the `wallet_gen` directory.

-----------
### Transaction Crafting

The `wallet_popup` directory contains a TypeScript script used for sending TON cryptocurrency from a funding wallet to a list of other wallets. For more details, please refer to the [README](./wallet_popup/README.md) file in the `wallet_popup` directory.

## How to Contribute

We welcome contributions from the community! If you're interested in helping improve TonUtils, here are ways you can contribute:

- **Reporting Bugs**: Open an issue to report a bug.
- **Suggesting Enhancements**: Have ideas on how to make TonUtils better? Open an issue with your suggestions.
- **Pull Requests**: Submit pull requests with bug fixes or new features.

## License

TonUtils is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE). Feel free to fork and modify it as per your needs.

## Support

If you need assistance or have any questions, feel free to open an issue or contact us directly.
